# Interval Notation

Trigonometry is the branch of mathematics that deals with the relationship between the sides and angles of triangles, as well as relations and functions.

The **Distance Formula** and the **Pythagorean Theorem**. Allow us to find the distance between two points and are equally useful in our study of *triangles* and *functions*.

**Function**
A function is a relation (*set of ordered pairs*) where no two orders pairs have the same first element.

*What does this mean?*

It means that a function is an equation where each and every x value is different and doesn’t repeat.

*How is this useful?*

If we know what values to plug in for x, then we can understand the entirety of our function (*equation*). In other words, we can represent our function in terms of its **Domain** and **Range**.

*So how do we represent a functions Domain and Range?*

Two ways:

1. Set Builder Notation
2. Interval Notation
   
When we first encountered Domain and Range, we used [inequalities]() to represent the values for which x and y could be.

An inequality allows us to compare two expressions by indicating one is greater than, greater than or equal to, less than, or less than or equal to, another. In fact, as [Cool Math](https://www.coolmath.com/algebra/07-solving-inequalities/03-interval-notation-01) nicely explains, we use intervals to help us identify properties that every member of our relation or set must satisfy.

> But there is a simpler way!

*What is Interval Notation?*

Interval notation combines inequality, or [set notation](), with its graph, and allows us to accurately express an interval with easy to understand symbols.

> Why should we care?

In advanced mathematics, *interval notation* is the preferred method of representing domain and range and is cleaner and easier to use and interpret.